Not quite so deviated anymore
=============================

:slug: not-quite-so-deviated-anymore
:date: 2005-04-11 19:12:12+00:00
:updated: 2005-04-11 19:12:18+00:00
:tags: waksman

*Background information:* There are two items of background information
that are necessary to understanding the rest of this post: 1. I had a
deviated septum and 2. The past tense of point 1 is correct. To be more
precise, for as long as I can remember, my left nostril has, on the
inside, been this tiny, mostly useless thing. Breathing through my nose,
I have been able to notice that the vast, vast majority of air travels
through my right nostril. A number of months ago (Novemberish) it
occurred to me that I could have something done about this condition and
that I might as well whilst I have my awesome student medical insurance.
I went in and had a consultation in mid-January and went in for surgery
this morning. That's the requisite background information.

The so-called background information is actually the real meat of this
post, now I'm just going to ramble about anesthesia and mild discomfort.

This was this first real surgery that I've ever had (wisdom teeth don't
count) and the first time I've ever had an I.V. or general anesthesia.
So I got to Mount Auburn Hospital bright and early at 6a without having
slept very much last night (I'll admit it, I was freaked out) and get
myself in a gown and on a bad. The nurse set up an I.V. which was ok for
a little bit and then I started to get a bit freaked out, which
manifested as the fingers on the I.V.ed arm twitching slightly. I met
with the anesthesiologist and his nurse as well as my surgeon (whom I
had met and spoken with a few times before). The anesthesiologist's
nurse squirted a syringe full of something he described as "like Valium
that takes effect in thirty seconds" into my I.V. A few moments later, I
wasn't freaking out at all and I was wheeled into an operating room. I
scooched over onto a different bed in the operating room and the next
thing I remember was waking up with an oxygen mask and being told that I
was starting to come around (which wasn't entirely clear to me at the
time). I spent a while lying in that bed in the recovery room, drifting
in and out of attentiveness until what point as I started to feel a
little more alert. Since I had arranged to have Max come pick me up, the
nurse called him and he came by. With a short stop at the MIT Medical
Pharmacy en route, I ended up back at my apartment. I am still (four
hours since regaining consciousness) feeling heavily drugged. The
druggedness is making me rather spacey and I am finding that memories,
perceptions, my imagination and complete fantasy are mixing together in
a semi-alert dream of a reality. The semi-alertness is kind of
bothersome and I expect that it's largely the work of the super-opiate
that I was given but may be partly the result of the tranquilizer as
well.

The druggedness, although annoying, is not the worst part of this
recovery process, not by a long shot. The worst part is that I can taste
the packing in my nose and it tastes horrible. In fact, the packing in
my nose is the only thing that I can taste; I ate some goldfish, they
tasted like packing; I ate some noodles, they tasted like packing; I
drank some ginger ale, it tasted like packing. Also, the packing makes
me feel like the one thing that I want to do in life is blow my nose,
which I can't do.

Well. I think that I'll watch a movie and continue to put up with the
taste of packing and the mild hallucinations. At least, in the end, my
nose will work like it damned well should have in the first place.
