Trial by Fire
=============

:slug: trial-by-fire
:date: 2004-02-23 03:56:00+00:00
:tags: video games

In addition to being the title of an old Sierra adventure game that I
used to be quite fond of, the term Trial by Fire applies pretty well to
tomorrow. Those of you in the know will understand perfectly, those of
you not, believe me when I say that I am not looking forward to
tomorrow.

That having been said, let me tell you a little about Trial by Fire, the
game. Trial by Fire was the second in the Quest for Glory series of
games. Quest for Glory was somewhere halfway in between your standard
Sierra graphical adventure game (most of which were beautifully artistic
pre-VGA games) and a modern computer role-playing game. You wandered
around talking to people, getting items and using them in the right
places, going through an elaborate and immersive story, but there was
also combat. The combat, although simple by modern terms, was well
designed and reminded me a great deal of fencing the time I decided to
be retro and play old Sierra games a few years back.

I have good memories of when David Caloccia and I used to sit around
playing old Sierra games on my Dell 286 or on his Tandy 1000. Ah the
good old days of early elementary school. It was pretty darned hard back
in those days when neither of us had a very large vocabulary and the
games forced us to interact with the game environment through textual
commands. I blame my early reading development, at least in part, on
those Sierra adventure games.

As a quick summary of the good ones, I thought that the Space Quest
series was exceptional, the Quest for Glory series was quite good, and
the Leisure Suit Larry series was also quite good (I suspect more so now
that I would be able to understand the sexual humor). I never really
liked the King's Quest or Police Quest games all that much and I don't
really remember any of the others.

Just as a short diversion from Sierra, but still on the topic of
adventure games, I would also highly recommend Infocom's Zork series,
the Legend of Kyrandia series by Westwood and LucasArts' Monkey Island
series. Those and Sierra's Space Quest series would be what I would
suggest if someone came to me and said, "I'm bored and want to play a
good adventure game, what do you suggest?"
