2010 Journey East: Days 4&5: Atlanta via Louisiana
==================================================

:slug: 2010-journey-east-days-45-atlanta-via-louisiana
:date: 2010-07-02 05:41:40+00:00
:tags: waksman

It's Thursday night--technically Friday--and I'm sitting in JamesMatt's
living room, chatting with his roommate. It's pleasant here but perhaps
I should back up.

Wednesday (Day 4), around noon, I packed up and left Austin. It was a
little later than I had intended but being well rested was a pleasant
outcome to achieve. Anyway, setting off from Austin, I set my GPS for
Venice, LA and set out. To be wholly honest, driving through Texas
really isn't all that interesting, especially eastern Texas. I don't
really have any complaints though; I'm really enjoying the road,
especially the decent speed limits down here in the South (usually
70mph, sometimes 80mph). I've started listening, at Grace's suggestion,
to an audiobook version of the novel Cloud Atlas. Cloud Atlas is
incredibly engrossing and, because of the narrative structure, at times
rather infuriating; this infuriation later enhancing the satisfaction it
provides but I am not yet done so it is perhaps best to wait a bit
before further reviewing.

After eventually leaving Texas, I entered Louisiana, which is so very
full of swampland as to be quite impressive. I first drove across
properly immense swamplands during my `2005 trip to
Florida <link://slug/adventures-to-the-south>`__ and those swamps had
nothing on Louisiana. The amount of water is both beautiful and
staggering. Anyway, working my way across Louisiana, I eventually hit
New Orleans. I drove through New Orleans and made my way for the tip of
the Mississippi delta, the afore-programmed Venice, LA. I made it pretty
far out that little strip of land before flooding halted my progress; so
it goes.

It's worth mentioning that I'm not really so much making a slow trip
across the country to see the sights; that is a thing to do and it might
be fun but it is not what I am doing; I am driving from San Francisco to
Woods Hole and dilly-dallying just a little bit along the way. As such,
I didn't spend much time in New Orleans as Atlanta was my next
destination.

Proceeding through Mississippi, getting a bit tired, I started
contemplating sleep. Eventually, I attempted to settle down at a rest
area in the back of my car, with Baldr, for some sleep. Unfortunately,
the rest area's light and Baldr's heat-induced heavy breathing made that
a non-viable plan.

Slamming a 5 Hour Power and getting back on the road, I forged on.
Finishing off Mississippi and pushing through Alabama, I made it to
Georgia in the wee hours of last night--Thursday (Day 5) morning.
Pushing on, continuing to listen to Cloud Atlas, I hit Atlanta at about
7am; finding JamesMatt awake, we got some breakfast, chatted a bit, and
then he went to work. Not having slept, I of course slept during the
day. Matt returned in the early evening; we and his roommates spent a
while hanging-out; and now, everyone else having gone to bed, I write
this before following.

Tomorrow, we make for Massachusetts, likely pausing (very briefly) in
New York along the way.
