2007 turns to 2008
==================

:slug: 2007-turns-to-2008
:date: 2008-01-05 00:17:15+00:00
:tags: waksman

If, one year ago, you had told me that I would be living in San
Francisco, with business cards that say I'm a scientist, in a year's
time, I would not have believed you. So much has changed--for the
better, I think--in the last year, there is no way that I could have
seen it coming. In the past year, I have abandoned law school, which I
am very happy about; I have moved back to Massachusetts and then away to
California, without plans to move back this time; I have started working
a, so called, "real" job; I have become financially independent; and,
for the first time, I have started to feel like I'm actually an adult,
which thoroughly freaks me out sometimes. Actually, seeing as how much
changed the year before, I probably shouldn't be too surprised. My life
has been pretty tumultuous since I graduated and, honestly, I'd kind of
like to give stability a try for a while.

The new year, of course, also means new resolutions and checking on how
well old ones turned out. For reference, you might wonder what I
`resolved last year <link://slug/out-with-2k6-and-in-with-2k7>`__.
Glancing back on the list, which of course I forgot, I can happily
report that I have gotten better at faking extroversion, faking an alpha
type personality, started eating healthier and played more video games;
four for nine isn't bad. Time for some goals for 2008 and, in addition
to new ones, I'm going to take a few old ones that still fit:

-  Be more fiscally responsible
-  Be more extroverted
-  Fake an alpha type personality better
-  Exercise
-  Eat healthier
-  Perpetrate some `Operation
   Mindfucks <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operation_Mindfuck>`__
-  Meet new people

Since these are all things that I'm planning to do anyway, I don't
expect it will matter much that I will have forgotten this list in a
week.
