The potato button is the apex of human technology
=================================================

:slug: the-potato-button-is-the-apex-of-human-technology
:date: 2010-11-30 00:50:17+00:00
:tags: science & technology, inanity

The potato button is the single greatest thing that mankind has ever
achieved. Dwarfing sliced bread, slightly surpassing the Saturn V, and
even edging out the Internet, the potato button expresses our
unparalleled superiority over not just every other creature on this
planet but over the primordial forces of nature themselves.

The potato button, for those that have not beheld its unmatched glory,
is a button on our microwave that cooks potatoes. To experience the
potato button's awesome power, one merely inserts one (or more)
potato(es) into the microwave and pushes the potato button, just the
potato button; one need not set a timer, choose a power level, or even,
for that matter, push the start button. Some number of minutes after
pushing the potato button, any raw potatoes one has inserted will emerge
as baked potatoes (or a fantastically good facsimile thereof).

The glory of the potato button comes from the combined technological
force that is microwaves, heat sensors, microcontrollers capable of
handling feedback systems, and the modern cultivated potato. The potato
button is a technological tour de force that turns a relatively
straightforward food preparation task into a task that is so utterly
trivial as to require nigh on no conscious thought whatsoever.

Now, it may be the case that I am being a little tongue-in-cheek by
suggesting that the potato button is more significant than the moon
landing but I do firmly believe that the potato button is an absolutely
quintessential example of why technology exists. Technology exists to
make the trivialize the tasks that we must otherwise perform so as to
allow us to perform grander tasks. Technology, in general, is much like
software, in specific, because it allows us to take tasks, abstract
them, and build larger tasks from those abstracted components.

The sheer simplicity of cooking a potato with the push of a single
button is a gigantic step toward removing time and thought from
preparing food. I am not suggesting that we should abandon cooking
altogether; cooking is fun and rewarding as a task and group experience.
Imagine, however, a world where you never have to think about food
preparation, except as a hobby. In Star Trek, most food is replicated as
needed; imagine how much time and productivity is gained by the removal
of the time needed to prepare food. Sure restaurants, cafeterias, or
mess halls can serve much the same purpose of removing the need for food
preparation but those do not let you eat at home; delivery services
allow one to eat from home without taking time to prepare food but from
an infrastructure standpoint do not scale well. The more that we can use
technology to trivialize the tasks of our lives, the more time we have
to push beyond our currently confines and step up the technological
ladder toward the future.

Seriously though, potatoes are great and being able to completely cook a
potato by pushing one button is amazing.
