Acetone: Conclusions
====================

:slug: acetone-conclusions
:date: 2006-01-25 00:20:50+00:00
:updated: 2006-01-25 00:21:22+00:00
:tags: science & technology, vehicles

As of the most recent refill of my truck's gas tank, I am confident that
I have enough data to draw some conclusions about the effect on fuel
economy of using acetone as a fuel additive.

To recap, for anyone that might have forgotten or missed out, a number
of months ago, I came across the suggestion on the internet that fuel
economy could be improved by using a small quantity of acetone as a fuel
additive. Since I wasn't terribly concerned about the risk of breaking
my truck and desperately wanted a way to save some money on gasoline, I
figured I might as well give it a shot. I started out by buying a gallon
of pure acetone and adding a little bit by funnel every time I filled my
gas tank (before the gas to encourage mixing). Initially I saw what
might have been an improvement in fuel efficiency but I was relying on
my memory and quickly saw my information as purely anecdotal.
Understanding how useless anecdotal information is, I decided to
approach the matter in a scientific and controlled manner. Now, 22 tanks
of gas and nearly four months later I am ready to draw conclusions from
my data.

I have found a near linear increase in fuel efficiency up to a peak
increase of about 10% at a concentration of acetone of 0.2%. Further
increases beyond 0.2% result in a very steep fall-off in fuel efficiency
such that a concentration of 0.25% is less fuel efficient than no
acetone at all. For those that don't want to think about concentrations,
0.2% acetone is almost exactly equal to 1/3 cup acetone for every 10
gallons of fuel.

Just to be political, or something like that, for a moment, if I can
finagle a 10% increase in my fuel economy out of Â¢10 worth of acetone, I
am doing a huge service to my bank account and the environment (acetone
doesn't pollute any more than gasoline). Now let's just take a moment to
think about how much of an impact there would be on the environment if
every single car in America improved its fuel efficiency by 10%;
acknowledging that, why isn't there a government mandate on gasoline
requiring it to contain 0.2% acetone (or thereabouts)? My guess would be
because your monetary savings would come straight out of the oil
companies pockets, but that's beside the point. I think everyone should
start adding acetone to their fuel tanks, saving themselves some money,
helping the environment and cutting back on our oil consumption. Hmm,
maybe I'll write my senator.

I should like to add the caveat that these results are true for my truck
and other vehicles may have slightly different acetone concentration
sensitivities. If you decide to follow my lead and add acetone to your
vehicles fuel tank, you should perform some experiments on your own to
determine your vehicles efficiency peak concentration. You should use
pure acetone (solvent from a hardware store), not the scented stuff you
can buy at CVS. Also, if you do something stupid and blow up your car or
something, it'll be your fault alone.
