Word Banter
===========

:slug: word-banter
:date: 2004-03-29 05:07:00+00:00
:tags: musings

I feel like wasting time with pointless banter and, since this is my
blog, I have every right to do so. Whether or not you want to read this
is up to you and doesn't matter. Now that the disclamatory bit is out of
the way, on to the banter.

You might be wondering why I chose the word banter to describe this
writing (or you might not care) and I'll tell you. I chose the word
banter is because I am just going to play with words and thoughts; this
is because I haven't got anything useful to say. This is going to be one
of those "How 'bout that local sports team?" or talking about the
weather kind of entries. For that matter, let's start with the weather.

I stepped outside earlier this evening to make a phone call (the cell
reception in my room is hideous) and I noticed that it's a beautiful
evening out. The truth of the matter is that I stepped outside a few
times because I was playing phone tag with someone. Anyway, it's a
little on the cool side, but quite far from cold and the sky is very
clear. So I was looking at the stars a little, it was quite pleasant.

**DIFFERENT TOPIC:** Yeah, that **needed** to be bold. Anyway, I was
reminded by the last sentence of my previous paragraph (ooh, I'm getting
all meta and stuff) of how much I like the word pleasant. Just so that
we're clear:

::

   From Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913) [web1913]:

     Pleasant \Pleas"ant\, a. [F. plaisant. See {Please}.]
        1. Pleasing; grateful to the mind or to the senses;
           agreeable; as, a pleasant journey; pleasant weather.

        2. Cheerful; enlivening; gay; sprightly; humorous; sportive;
           as, pleasant company; a pleasant fellow.

Yeah, I'm talking about definition 1. It's such a great word, pleasant
in and of itself (self-referential now, how do you like that?). Oh and
it turns out that grateful can be used as an adjective in a manner
synonymous with pleasant (athena%dict grateful says so). So yeah,
pleasant is a good word, I like it.

One might point and say that my fondness for the word pleasant is
transient and will pass soon; history will likely show that to be an
accurate prediction. My fondness for specific words is often a
transient thing, but it is often the case that I keep coming back to a
select few over and over again. As to what the choice words that I keep
returning to are, I can only give a few examples and time will tell on
the rest. Keen is probably the best example of a word that I keep coming
back to and then forgetting and then coming back to and so on.

I like words, they let me say things.
