I really like trees
===================

:slug: i-really-like-trees
:date: 2004-05-07 04:18:00+00:00
:tags: waksman

I have decided to take up the art of Bonsai. I am currently in the first
stages of the art: namely, I have taken a number of books on the subject
out of the library. Incidentally, Bonsai is within 635.9 on the Dewey
Decimal system. Right now I am in the process of reading the first of
the three books I withdrew. Tomorrow, I will probably intersperse my
normal Friday activities with continuing to read about Bonsai as well as
obtaining some pots and soil components for my endeavors.

In a few days--perhaps this weekend, perhaps early next week--I will
begin with the real Bonsai work. By this, I mean that I will spend a
fair amount of time combing the wooded areas in my region for seedlings
and small trees that seem to be of a variety that would later be
pleasant. These seedlings will then be transplanted to the pots and I
will begin careful maintenance of them. I suspect that I will go out
browsing for trees on a number of occasions so as to get some of the
breeds that come about later in the season. Hopefully I will obtain
between ten and forty small trees to take care of.

I will not begin pruning or shaping any of the trees that I obtain until
next year for two reasons. The first reason is a pragmatic one: if the
trees are pruned to early they will be weak and later plans will be
interfered with. The second reason is idealistic: since one of my goals
in undertaking Bonsai is to work on my patience, making a deliberate
point of not rushing in the beginning is key.

You might be asking yourself why I would seek to make little trees and
that is a reasonable question, which I will endeavor to answer. There is
a part of me that feels that I need to produce something of an aesthetic
nature and so I set about looking for an art. For a while now I've been
doing some drawing (mostly sketching) in a notebook I have and that's
ok, but I'm not very good at drawing and I always rush things to much.
This rushing things bit is another part of why I want to take up Bonsai,
because it is something that one can not rush without failure. With
sketching, I set the pace; with Bonsai, the tree sets the pace (and
trees, as most people know, follow a very slow pace). With a sketch, one
will hope for a good drawing in a few minutes or maybe hours; with
Bonsai, I might hope for a good tree in a few years or maybe before I
die. Also, I expect that Bonsai can be a very calming and meditative
art.

In short, I am going to learn Bonsai so that I may create works of
beauty, enrich my mind and develop my patience in approaching life.
Also, I really like trees.
