Mosquitoes
==========

:slug: mosquitoes
:date: 2004-05-12 07:08:00+00:00
:updated: 2006-06-09 16:18:27+00:00
:tags: musings

I love spring and almost everything that it has to offer, but there is
one thing about spring that I simply abhor: mosquitoes. There was once a
time when the little buggers didn't bother me, though I don't know if
that was truly the case or is simply the way that I remember it. Life is
a funny thing when you think about all the things that you have done and
that at one time it was the present. No, life's not funny, time is. I
was originally going to write about the seasons and mosquitoes but I
think that I'd rather wax philosophical about time, so I'm going to.

About the only thing that any of us can say about time is that it
passes. Though that's really all we can say, we don't need to say it in
so few words. The present is something that is ever present but can
never be caught. The moment you think that you've laid hold of the
present, it's already the past. We know that there once was a present,
but that's only through memory and if you really try to delve down in
your own head sometimes you can almost relive memories as though they
were just happening. The problem is that the almost bit is the key bit;
memory is like an analog recording--technically is one--and every copy
is worse than the last. That is all that memories are, an imperfect copy
of what was once the present. The duality of the present, in that it
never is but always has been and in that it always is and always shall
be, is an odd duality, but if one considers how many odd dualities there
are in all of reality (I wanted to use the words nature, life, the
universe, existence and a few others here, but realistically have to
choose one so I went with being but then realized that reality was a
better one and changed it after I finished this parenthetical
explanation [I also changed the tense of the second word of the greater
parenthetical from want to wanted because that tense seemed more
appropriate once I had finished]). I apologize if you found the
parenthetical of the previous sentence to be cumbersome, but, when I get
myself thinking about time, I can get recursive like that. In the case
of most dualities it is possible to see things from either one of the
two sides but rarely to see both sides at the same time (ex. those
optical illusions that have an old woman and a young woman, IHTFP [MIT
students and alum will understand], the radiation of our sun, etc.). All
of my life I have seen time from the side that says that the present has
always passed and is in memory; I wonder if it is possible to see time
from the other side of the duality.

There is a part of me that would like to know what it is to see the
present as something that always is, if it was even for just a brief
moment. There is another part of me, a stronger part of me, that worries
that if I ever experienced such a moment it would be so spectacular that
I would spend the rest of my life seeking to relive it. That last
sentence made me wonder something perhaps a little more frightening, if
one managed to see the present as something that always is, it might not
be possible to return to seeing the present as something that's always
passed or it might be too glorious to ever return. Of course, it's
probably better not to be frightened by the idea, but it's probably good
not to search for it either.

So, in short, time's funny and I have a real distaste for mosquitoes.
