So you're in a desert, but you're bones, and it grows.
=======================================================

:slug: so-youre-in-a-desert-but-youre-bones-and-it
:date: 2010-09-06 00:48:10+00:00
:updated: 2010-09-06 08:35:30+00:00
:tags: video games, travel

I've been in Seattle the past few days for Penny-Arcade Expo (PAX) and,
as usual, the "Pitch Your Game" panel carries a special degree of import
for me. The premise of the panel is that audience members are given
15-45 seconds to pitch an idea for a video game and have it judged
(harshly) by the panel. Those making it past this elevator pitch are
admitted to the second round where they go into greater detail on their
idea. Finally prizes are given to the best three ideas. It is important
to note that the metric for determining the best game idea is a
combination of hilarity and entertainment quality, having nothing to do
with marketability or genuine quality. Hilarity, of course, ensues.

"Pitch Your Game" is not just one of my favorite parts of PAX; it is a
favorite for much of the Fort-Awesome crowd. Having come to PAX a number
of times, we've come to regard planning ridiculous game pitches as a
time honored, evening, hotel room tradition. This year, in pitch
planning we came up with a number of hilarious ideas, as well as a flood
of horrible and/or unspeakable ideas. Additionally, we came to the
realization that any crappy pitch can be made more amusing by appending
"with JRPG elements; also, it's a rhythm game" (ex. Angry Badger is like
Sonic: The Hedgehog but you can't run fast and the main characters a
drunk; also it has JRPG elements and it's rhythm game) (the real
hilarity comes after numerous repetitions).

Eventually, we narrowed ourselves down to a reasonable number of
pitches: Mexican Gear Solid: Tactical Stealth Immigration, Underground
Railroad Tycoon, and FEMA Presents Al Roker's Hurricane Alley 2011.
Eventually, these pitches all went splendidly in the panel and made it
to the second round. After calling Friday a night, heading to bed and
falling asleep, Riad and I apparently kept pitching ideas (this is much
like other instances of my sleep talking that I have been informed of).
Amongst the ramblings of my sleep, Bigtime, who was awake at the time,
overheard me say, "so you're in the desert, but you're bones, and it
grows." This phrase so intrigued me that I decided that it must be my
pitch.

My pitch went a little something like this:

Me: "I'm not entirely clear on some details since a lot of this was
related to me by a friend who heard me rambling in my sleep. However to
the best of my figuring, the prophets of old came to me in my dreams and
bid me pitch a game, in exactly these words: So you're in the desert,
but you're bones and it grows."

Entire room: [perplexed silence for a few moments]

Panelist: You should stop sleeping.

Me: There's more.

Panelist: Is that a threat?

Me: Maybe.

Panelist: No. Just no.

The end result, for me, was not the second round but to have confounded
the panel and the entire room into stunned silence was absolutely
priceless.
