PAX 2008
========

:slug: pax-2008
:date: 2008-09-02 23:31:48+00:00
:updated: 2009-05-24 04:53:05+00:00
:tags: art & culture, travel

I spent this past weekend in Seattle at `Penny Arcade Expo
2008 <http://www.pennyarcadeexpo.com/>`__, which is a great big
convention for gamers of all sorts and those of similar persuasions. I
met up with Riad, Gautham and Ariel in Seattle and we had an awesome
time. Between the exhibit hall, the panels, the talks, the tournaments,
the freeplay areas and all of the other people, PAX was three solid days
of fun. I highly recommend PAX, in the future, to anyone with any
interest in video games, board games, the Internet or good times in
general.

For me, the major highlights of PAX were:

-  `Monsterpocalypse <http://www.monsterpocalypsegame.com/>`__ -
   Privateer Press was selling preview releases of their new game,
   Monsterpocalypse. Monsterpocalypse is a collectible miniatures game
   focused around destroying opposing monsters and cities. It is a very
   well constructed game and a heck of a lot of fun to play; I purchased
   enough for two people to play and I intend to get more when the game
   is actually released in October. I played two games at PAX, one more
   last night and I really like this game. Monsterpocalypse is awesome
   and I highly recommend looking into it.
-  `Starcraft II <http://www.starcraft2.com/>`__ - Blizzard had playable
   demos of Starcraft 2 up and it seems really good. Starcraft 2 seems
   to have kept the feel and gameplay of the original while replacing
   some of the interface annoyances, improving the graphics and adding a
   few more units. I am now really looking forward to Starcraft 2's
   release.
-  `Demigod <http://www.demigodthegame.com/>`__ - I hadn't heard of
   Demigod before PAX but, as one of the random things I saw in the
   exhibit hall, it looks like a lot of fun. I probably won't get
   Demigod because it seems like the sort of game that's best suited to
   multi-player, which I haven't really been in a good situation for
   since undergrad, but if I were looking for a fun multi-player game,
   Demigod would be on my short list.
-  `Minibosses <http://www.minibosses.com/>`__ - The Minibosses, a rock
   band that exclusively plays covers of video game music, were the last
   act at PAX's Saturday night concert. I've seen the Minibosses before
   as they've played Steer Roast a couple of times but they're still
   great. There is something particularly awesome about hearing the
   theme song to Ninja Gaiden, Megaman 2 or Metroid played on electric
   guitars, bass and drums. The Minibosses played a ~2 hour set that was
   solid glory and totally worth staying up until 3AM for.
-  `MC Frontalot <http://frontalot.com/>`__ - MC Frontalot is probably
   the best known and most popular `nerdcore hip
   hop <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nerdcore_hip_hop>`__ artist.
   Frontalot is pretty good and an awful lot of fun. He puts on a great
   show and his raps are really entertaining and well targeted at the
   audience. Heck, Frontalot is probably responsible for making nerdcore
   what it is today.
-  Pitch Your Game Idea - We pitched the oft-discussed in Fort Awesome
   game idea for Eco-Slayer, which met with mass audience approval but
   didn't win any prizes with the panel. The reactions and getting an
   honorable mention from three of the four judges was pretty great.
   Shout outs to Mar, whose idea Eco-Slayer was originally.
-  DTS - PAX had this wonderful system called the Distributed Tournament
   System; basically they gave you two pins at the beginning of PAX to
   wear. If you were wearing at least one DTS pin and saw someone else
   wearing at least one DTS pin, you could challenge them for a pin. The
   challenge could take any form you wanted, in previous years it was
   only for handheld gaming, and the goal was to collect the most pins
   at PAX. I didn't really collect as many as I should have but I had an
   awful lot of thumb wars, Indian wrestling contests and games of
   rock-paper-scissors. DTS made for a great way to interact with and
   meet random new people, even if it was just for a short competition
   and conversation. Seriously though, I had some truly epic thumb wars,
   one even ended in a draw after about 15 minutes of fierce
   competition.
-  Other people - One of the best things about PAX was all the other
   people. Sure there were some annoying socially awkward people but
   there were also a lot of really cool people. It was a great big
   convention for people that like some of the things that I like and
   for which I, as a person, probably fell within one standard deviation
   of normal. It was a nice feeling being surrounded, in a sense, by my
   peoples.
