Osceola and East Osceola
========================

:slug: osceola-and-east-osceola
:date: 2004-06-21 02:16:00+00:00
:tags: mountains

Sam, Max and I went up to New Hampshire and climbed Mount Osceola and
East Osceola today; great fun, good company.

I set out at about 8:15a and grabbed Max at about 8:30a. From Max's, we
proceeded into the city and picked Sam up from Chi Phi at 9:00a. From
here we made the arduous trek deep into New Hampshire, grabbed some food
and supplies in Waterville Valley. We then proceeded onwards and got to
the parking area at about 12:30p. From the parking area, we began our
storming of the Osceolas. A majority of the early part of Osceola is
rather rocky and somewhat steep. Eventually, the rocky bits calm down a
little and then it's just steep. Since we were storming the
mountain--not too actively, just because we're all in our early twenties
and in decent shape--we made really good time and weren't too concerned
with the steepness or the rockiness (it's more fun that way). Up at the
top of Osceola are two old fire tower foundations, one at the top of
Osceola's big cliff at the summit thing and one a little earlier. At the
earlier fire tower foundation there is a side path to the west that
leads to a great outlook to the Northwest. After taking a diversion to
the aforementioned outlook we made our way to Osceola's big cliff at the
summit thing, which happens to be a big cliff at the summit. The big
cliff is pretty spectacular, especially if you've got a mild fear of
heights, and allows for a great view off to the Northeast and East.
Since we'd already planned to hit up East Osceola before stopping for
the sandwiches that we'd purchased in Waterville Valley, we only stopped
for a short while. After Osceola summit, there is a steep and rocky
descent for a bit, which is then followed by a really steep, rock
descent for another little bit. It then proceeds to smooth out and start
to rise to East Osceola summit. East Osceola summit, is rather
unimpressive and mostly covered in trees. It still being rather early,
we decided to head back to Osceola summit before eating. The really
steep, rock descent became a really steep, rock ascent in reverse and
was quite a lot of fun. Having made our way back to Osceola summit, we
ate, sat around for a while and then proceeded down. Incidentally,
pickles taste really good when you're electrolyte depleted from exerting
yourself. We made it back to the car at 5:00p, giving us a 4:30 hike
time in comparison with the AMC guidebook estimate of 6:40, which I
found quite impressive. I was still feeling pretty good about myself
when we got back to the car, as though I could have kept going for a bit
longer. We then proceeded back to I93 and headed south. We, of course,
stopped at the Burger King in Ashland, NH, as is customary for hiking in
the White Mountains (as far as I'm concerned), for dinner. A nice
greasy, salty burger with salty fries is like ambrosia when you've been
exerting yourself strenuously for a large part of the day. It was at the
Burger King that I realized I was quite fatigued, apparently going all
fast like is tiring and it just had a bit of a lag so as not to let me
feel it while hiking. From there we returned Sam to Chi Phi and I
returned Max to his home. Osceola's got some nice views and the path
between it and East Osceola is pretty fun.

Well, that's four four-thousand-footers down and forty-four to go.
