The Royal Armada
================

:slug: the-royal-armada
:date: 2004-10-09 13:12:00+00:00
:tags: sailing

We (Liz, my sailing partner, and I) were out racing Tech Dinghies with
the rest of the sailing team during practice yesterday when we noticed
that one of the other dinghies had taken on a third person and hoisted a
Jolly Roger. Observing the behavior of the pirate flag bearing boat, it
was obvious they were trying to capsize other boats. Now, Liz and I,
being the sorts of people that find such antics amusing, decided to play
the role of the Royal Armada (you know, the people charged with
preventing piracy). In order to prevent piracy we set a course directly
for the pirate vessel. Unfortunately, the pirates saw us bearing down on
them and a brief battle ensued, the end result of which involved no
capsizing and the pirate vessel fleeing the scene. Having scared off the
pirates, we got back to the race. A short while later, another
opportunity arose, in which the pirates were assaulting another vessel
and did not see us coming. Getting right up next to the pirate vessel,
Liz took control of our dinghy and I hopped on the pirate bow. Grabbing
the pirate vessel's mast, I was able to drag their boat over. The
pirates abandoned ship and began an assault on our vessel. As the
pirates were capsizing our boat, I righted theirs. Liz succeeded in
climbing over the top of our boat, remaining mostly dry as it capsized
and turtled. Having righted the pirate vessel and taken control of it, I
shouted to Liz, who hopped in. At this point, we sailed off in the
pirate vessel and left the pirates swimming along side our, completely
turtled, boat. by the time the pirates had gotten things working again,
we had finished the race and were heading back to the dock.

If we were to score this based on people who went swimming, the final
tally would be 3 points us, 1 point pirates. Oh man, we're awesome.
