On Ice Blocks
=============

:slug: on-ice-blocks
:date: 2007-07-02 02:50:55+00:00
:tags: adventures

Mid-afternoon yesterday, I noticed that it was an absolutely gorgeous
day—as many have been recently—and, having not made evening plans yet, I
decided that it was to be a night for ice block sledding. Wondrously,
the weather held out pretty well, with a clear night sky and warm air.
Furthermore, it was a near full moon last night so we had plenty of
light to see by.

Ice block sledding, for those that don't know, is a fantastic sport that
involves no more than some blocks of ice, some towels and a hill with
well mown grass. In some parts of the world, ice blocks aren't the
easiest thing to come by but, in Woods Hole, the local liquor store
sells them in order to accommodate people with house boats and old
fashioned ice boxes. I've got plenty of towels, so that's no problem.
The well mown grass hill is where Woods Hole really shines; we have a
fancy golf course with a very steep hill in the middle of Hole 13's
fairway. Once you have all three components, they must be put together
correctly; the correct organization is to put the ice block on the top
of the hill, put a folded towel on top of the ice block, sit on the
folded towel, set off down the hill and try not to fall off. I should
have mentioned, the ice blocks are about 12"x6"x6", which is to say not
very big or easy to stay on.

Having acquired all the requisite components, plus a few beers for good
measure, the troops (friends that I had called earlier in the day) were
gathered and the fun commenced. We had a little trouble with the golf
course sprinkler system initially but, once that passed, we had a hill
that was slightly moistened, which serves to make the ice blocks go even
faster. Having been ice block sledding many times over the course of
quite a few years, there's only so much appeal to going down by myself,
whether it's on my butt, stomach or whatever. The next level of thrill
is formation ice block sledding; there are quite a few ways to arrange
two people with two ice blocks and even more with three. In our case, we
had five ice blocks, so we didn't come anywhere near exhausting our
possible formation arrangement. It was a fantastic night and a
fantastic endeavor.

If you can find some way to get your hands on blocks of ice, you will be
doing yourself a severe disservice not to go ice block sledding
sometime. Of course, if you ever visit me on the Cape and the weather is
decent, you probably won't have a very hard time convincing me to take
you out ice block sledding.
