Hestaby's Realm, Shasta, Failure
================================

:slug: hestabys-realm-shasta-failure
:date: 2008-05-27 22:35:02+00:00
:updated: 2008-05-27 23:01:39+00:00
:tags: mountains

This past weekend, Memorial Day weekend '08, a couple friends and I set
out to climb `Mount
Shasta <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mount_Shasta>`__; we did not
succeed. Mount Shasta is the second highest of the Cascade Mountains,
the fifth highest mountain in California and the fiftieth highest in
North America. Shasta is noteworthy for being by itself; Shasta pops out
of otherwise mostly flat land, making it a rather imposing sight.
Driving down I-5 on the Seattle to San Francisco leg of my move from
Greater Boston to the Bay Area, I passed Shasta and was absolutely blown
away by the sight of such a massive mountain popping up out of nowhere.

Myself, Hippo and John, set out from the bay area Friday evening.
Stopping at Chipotle en route, we got to Finlandia! Motel in Mount
Shasta City, California sometime around 1 or 2AM. Repacking lightly and
getting to sleep, we woke up rather early so that we could pick up our
rental gear and meet up to take a basic mountaineering course with
`Shasta Mountain Guides <http://www.shastaguides.com/>`__. The rest of
Saturday was spent at low elevations of Shasta learning how to
mountaineer, including climbing steep snow/ice, self-arresting with an
ice axe, etc. Personal, I felt the course was really informative,
leaving me both glad to have the knowledge for the climb and glad to
have the knowledge going forward. Saturday night, we dined in Shasta
City, which, I might add, is an incredibly pleasant little town with
very friendly people.

Sunday morning, we woke up bright and early at 7AM, getting to the
trailhead at Bunny Flats by about 9AM. Bunny Flats is at an elevation of
6,800', already more than 500' higher than the highest thing I'd ever
climbed previously, `Mount
Washington <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mount_Washington_%28New_Hampshire%29>`__.
From Bunny Flats, we obtained the necessary permits and set out. We
reached, the first notable waypoint, Horse Camp at 7,800'. When making a
two day trip of climbing Shasta, one usually makes camp at Horse Camp or
Lake Helen; our initial plan was to camp at Lake Helen but the weather
combined with the advice of the Horse Camp caretaker convinced us to
camp at Horse Camp. Horse Camp also provided the benefits of outhouses
(climbers are otherwise required to bag and carry out feces from Shasta)
and a flowing spring. The spring water available at Horse Camp is
reputed to be the best water on Earth and, having tried it myself, I
must admit that I have not encountered better water to date. We took a
short hike further up Sunday afternoon, leaving all of our gear behind,
turning back when it started to snow heavily. Sunday night we cooked
various dinner stuffs, repacked our bags with essentials and went to
sleep around 7 or 8PM.

Monday, we woke up at 1AM, got ready and began climbing by head-lamp
light around 2:15AM. The climb up from Horse Camp, is slow and rather
arduous. The climbing was mostly up big, steep snow fields, which had
nice fresh snow from the heavy snow that caused us to cut short our hike
of Sunday. Thankfully for us, there were two guided tours that left
around 1:30AM and had blazed the trail for us, making things a little
easier. By around 5:15AM, we had reached Lake Helen at 10,400'.
Although, Lake Helen is 2,600' above Horse Camp, it's only about Â¾ of a
mile laterally, in case you wanted a sense of the difficulty. By Lake
Helen, I was starting to feel a little off, getting exhausted and losing
my appetite, at the time unidentified early signs of `altitude
sickness <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Altitude_sickness>`__ or, if you
prefer, acute mountain sickness. The sun started to rise while we were
at Lake Helen and we set off for points higher. After Lake Helen is one
of the steeper portions of the entire mountain and it's really steep.
From Lake Helen up is when the altitude sickness really kicked in.

Altitude sickness is when the lower pressure of the air prevents your
body from getting as much oxygen as it normally needs, which poses
rather substantial problems for your brain and body. Subjectively, for
me, it felt as though my brain was falling asleep. I wasn't tired, my
body and muscles felt like they were in fine shape to continue but I
couldn't shake the feeling that I was so exhausted that I was going to
collapse. It's somewhat like the sensation of being on the edge of
passing out after you've been awake for a couple days, minus the being
tired part. Altitude sickness, being altitude driven, gets worse pretty
much every step up you take, which made continuing progressively harder
and harder. We were following a hike one hour, rest a little, hike one
hour, rest schedule and when we next rested, my GPS, which we were using
as an altimeter read 11,242'. As we rested, I drank water and tried to
eat but the altitude sickness was in pretty full swing. I was so worn
down that chewing a granola bar took most of the effort that I was able
to muster from myself. Imagine, if you will, the level of incapacitation
that goes along with a very high fever but without the fun of delirium
or the security of being in bed. Noting that I was in pretty poor shape
and felt on the verge of passing out, it was decided that turning back
was the best option. Another thing about altitude sickness being
altitude driven is that as soon as you get back below your ceiling--mine
is apparently about 10,000' right now--you tend to start feeling better.
By the time we got back down to Lake Helen, it was as though someone had
lifted a great weight off of my brain.

It was a little frustrating to be at Lake Helen and feel mostly fine to
go on but know that the altitude would make it too difficult. From Lake
Helen down, it was mostly wading/jogging/trudging/hopping through a few
inches to a few feet of snow, of which enough was powder to make me
really wish that I had skis. Very soon after we started downward, it
started to snow rather heavily with whiteout levels of visibility. The
rapid drop in weather quality made it almost fortunate that my altitude
sickness had forced us to turn around when it did as contending with
whiteout conditions at higher elevations and greater exhaustion would
have been rather hazardous. The weather events of the weekend seem to
have prevented most, if not all, people from summiting Shasta over this
memorial day weekend, so we may not have really missed out on too much.
We got back down to Horse Camp by about 11AM, the bizarre result of
starting at 2:15AM and all decided to take a nap. Unfortunately, when we
got up from our naps to pack and leave, it was raining. It took us
rather a while to accept the rain, get up and pack everything. From
there, it was a couple hours hike out down the slow path from Horse Camp
and we were done.

Ultimately, it was a grueling, sometimes unpleasant endeavor and I'm
immensely pleased that I did it. I would very much like to try Shasta
again sometime; perhaps I'll try to do some altitude training or get a
doctor to give me some
`Acetazolamide <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acetazolamide>`__. Shasta
aside, methinks that this whole mountaineering thing is a thing that I
should be doing more of.

P.S. For those of you who are not
`Shadowrun <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shadowrun>`__ geeks, Mount
Shasta is the home of the great dragon Hestaby. For those that are,
while I was hiking beyond Lake Helen and feeling the effects of altitude
sickness, I got myself to keep going by telling myself to roll
willpower.
