Ambrosia between two slices of bread
====================================

:slug: ambrosia-between-two-slices-of-bread
:date: 2007-06-14 03:39:38+00:00
:tags: food & drink

(inclusive)

Coming home after an evening of light revelry, I found myself a might
bit peckish. Finding myself in such a situation and feeling it best to
resolve matters before I set sail for the shadowy realm known to us as
sleep, I set about making myself a sandwich. Having availed myself of
the bounty to be found at the most local supermarket earlier in this
day, I found a number of wondrous substances at the ready. Beginning
with two slices of German Dark Wheat bread, I set myself upon the first
ingredient that caught my attention: chunky peanut butter. The peanut
butter added to the mix, I found myself at a grand impasse: Nutella or
raspberry preserves. Upon realizing that the joy of peanut butter and
jam had crossed my pallet more recently than the exquisiteness of peanut
butter and Nutella, I selected Nutella to grace the slice of bread
opposite my chunky peanut butter. Moments before I brought the Nutella
coated bread and the chunky peanut butter coated bread together, a
fantastic idea struck me.Coming to me in a flash was the notion that I
could pour a bit of honey down upon the bread before sealing the
sandwich. This stroke of inspired genius led to the construction of my
first chunky peanut butter, Nutella and honey on dark wheat sandwich
ever. As sandwiches go, this one has few parallels or competitors.

Truly, I must have a muse hanging over my shoulders. Only a muse of
truly divine merit could inspire me to devise such an ambrosial delight.
