Numerology and Synchronicity in Restaurant Stubs
================================================

:slug: numerology-and-synchronicity-in-restaurant-stubs
:date: 2008-03-26 21:30:05+00:00
:tags: musings, food & drink

When I see a number or sequence, I have a tendency to deconstruct it
into other numbers or sequences; I do this with license plates,
addresses, receipt stubs and all other manner of things. It is receipt
stubs, specifically from restaurants that I'd like to take as my
discussion nucleus today. Yesterday, for the first time, I got a steak
and cheese from Theo's Cheesesteak at the Rincon Center nearby and I
happened to be order number 64. Upon seeing 64, I internally
deconstructed it to 2^6 and spent the subsequent few moments thinking
generally about powers of two. Today, having enjoyed yesterday's
cheesesteak, I decided to get another and went, again, to Theo's where
I, once again, happened to be order number 64. Performing the same
deconstruction to 2^6 immediately reminded me that I had been given 64
yesterday, allowing me to note that I had received the same number from
the same restaurant, two days in a row. Coincidence: yes; synchronicity:
I found it meaningful, so yes; evidence for numerology: oh come on, no.

This particular synchronicity got me thinking philosophically about the
nature of significance and how we attach meaning to things. We humans
are pattern finders, we do it very well and we tend to do it
unconsciously. Patterns simplify the world and allow us to abstract
things into easier pieces. Since we use patterns to better understand
tho world, we tend to do our best to fit things into patterns, even if
it's merely a coincidental pattern, which is fine because patterns do
arise spontaneously. People, in my experience, tend to conflate the
existence of a pattern with the presence of meaning. In the case of
numbers, I believe that the relative ease of constructing arbitrary
patterns often leads people to attach meaning to things that are random
in nature. I know that I'm guilty of attaching meaning where it isn't
due but, at least, I tend to be conscious of and complicit in my
misattribution.

The question now is whether or not I should get a cheesesteak tomorrow,
for pseudoscience and all.
