Muth and I pwnz
===============

:slug: muth-and-i-pwnz
:date: 2004-01-09 23:27:00+00:00
:updated: 2005-01-24 06:49:37+00:00
:tags: school

Muth and I are working on this `6.270 <http://web.mit.edu/6.270/>`__
robot of ours and getting good results. Mind you we're not working on
our competition robot yet, just one to complete the various assignments
for the class before we can start working on our real robot. This being
totally unimportant quality-wise, we've been shooting for just enough
effort to get things checked off and move on. Assignment 3 was due
yesterday and Assignment 4 today; these are the only assignments that
involve our pre-competition robot.

Assignment 3 involved building a robot that can go forward, backward,
turn counter-clockwise and respond to a bump sensor. Yesterday we spent
2 hours building a robot that satisfied the requirements for Assignment
3 and most of the time was spent debugging code only to find out that I
had forgotten how to tell the difference between left and right. Having
finished, we walked into lab and were checked off in about 10 minutes.

Assignment 4 is where the story gets fun. Assignment 4 was to make your
robot chase after an IR Beacon. We start out today with some
modifications to our robot from yesterday, namely mounting the IR Beacon
and figuring out how to make it work (which is pretty hard because it's
supposed to be connected to the expansion board, which we aren't using).
So we ended up putting about 1.5 hours of work into the thing (of which
a portion was taken up by my making and eating some macaroni and
cheese). We didn't test the robot before going into lab and my
expectation was that it would be sufficient, but barely so, to pass
checkoff. So we go in to lab and I'm thinking that I should probably
test the IR recognition capabilities of the robot before we ask to be
checked off (don't want to waste TA time after all), but then I figure
that I don't really care and it should work so I don't bother. We're
standing there waiting to get our hands on another IR Beacon so that we
can try our robot and in the meanwhile we watch a number of other teams
make robots that sit there and twitch a bit, maybe twitching generally
towards the IR Beacon and so on. We get tired of waiting so we ask if we
can just get checked off then (without bothering to test) and our robot
races after the Beacon so fast that the guy can't get away from it fast
enough. The thing is flawless, and the TA made the remark that, "That's
the way it's supposed to work." So basically, with a total of maybe 3.5
hours of work Muth and I have managed to make one of the best robots for
Assignment 4.

Muth and I pwnz
