Merry Xmas 2k4
==============

:slug: merry-xmas-2k4
:date: 2004-12-25 18:07:47+00:00
:updated: 2004-12-25 22:00:53+00:00
:tags: waksman

Once again it's Christmas, and I've gotten some presents and some
things. I presume that many of you have also gotten stuff, even those
that celebrate other holidays.

I'd like to take a moment now to discuss the matter of gift
giving/receiving. I think, at this point, I've moved into a new phase of
gift giving and receiving. I don't like it when people tell me what they
want or hint at what they want and I don't like it when people ask me
what I want. This sort of knowledge defeats the entire purpose of gift
giving. The point is that the giver is supposed to select a gift that is
appropriate for the receiver based on how well the gift giver knows the
gift receiver. In the end, it really is the thought that counts.

Now I think that I'll talk about some of the gifts that I received; if
you gave me a gift, read or don't but be forewarned that this is for my
edification and not yours.

**Halo 2**: I had not yet purchased Halo 2 but I had played it and it
was pretty decent. In fact, I've been wavering on the line of
considering buying it for a while but not really wanting to spend the
$50 to get it. Receiving Halo 2 as a gift is the perfect solution to
this problem and I was quite pleased to receive it. What's even more
pleasing is that I did not know that I was going to receive it and
received it after having dismissed attempts to find out what I wanted.
Also, the giver of this gift, managed to employ misdirection and had me
expecting Transformers related DVD things. I was so misdirected that
when I saw the single-DVD sized present I was worried that I had been
given a copy of Transformers: The Movie, which I already own, but then I
was pleasantly surprised by Halo 2. So Halo 2, surprised me and good.

**Whitewings**: These are some fancy paper laminate airplanes. As a
materials science nut, I like to think of them as a paper/glue composite
airplanes. Anyway, the point is that they're airplanes and the assembly
required is all fancy and complicated but they also fly really well.
It's the fun of models combined with the fun of paper airplanes. Sadly,
I knew that I was going to be getting them, which takes away a portion
of the fun. If I had received this gift without knowing that I was going
to receive it, it would have been a spectacular gift, however, having
known that I would be receiving it, it is only a pretty neat thing to
have.

**Books**: I don't read books very often. Books are a horrible gift to
give me. If I receive a book as a gift, one of two things will happen:
either the book ends up on my shelf and I don't read a word from it or I
start reading to humor the gift giver, make it a short distance in and
then stop. The fundamental problem here is that I don't like reading
books and I don't know what sorts of books that I like. I think that I
should retract the statement that books are a bad gift for me and
replace it with almost all books are a horrible gift for me.
Occasionally, I come across a book that I think looks really cool and
then I buy it, sometimes I finish them and sometimes I don't but those
books would make good gifts for me. The only way I read a book is if it
somehow strikes me as really cool, is by one of a very small set of
authors or I have sought it out for other specific reasons. Examples of
case one include House of Leaves, which I am kind of reading now and is
just so weird that I had to read it (and should get around to finishing
at some point), or Bruce Campbell's autobiography If Chins Could Kill:
Confessions of a B Movie Actor, because Bruce Campbell is awesome and I
saw it in Barnes & Noble yesterday. The second case is pretty much
limited to short stories by H. P. Lovecraft that I haven't read yet.
Case three is the hardest to predict and wouldn't work for gifts anyway
but includes things like Hagakure, The Iliad, Zen and the Art of
Motorcycle Maintenance, The Art of War and other random things. So yeah,
books, not a good gift to give me.

There was also other stuff but those serve to best illustrate the point
I want to make. I got some good stuff but I ended up disappointed and
bitter because of the whole affair and the fact that it tells me that
only my brother, Dave, knows me well enough to get me a good present. At
least one person in my family can give me a decent gift; it's better
than none.
