Beautiful Driving
=================

:slug: beautiful-driving
:date: 2007-09-08 19:48:20+00:00
:tags: waksman

Yesterday, Max and I drove through Wyoming and it was the most fun and
beautiful drive that I have ever had the pleasure of taking. The drive
between Sheridan, WY and Cody, WY involved a bunch of sharp switchbacks
up into the Big Horn mountains. The switchbacks were a ton of fun and
the views were gorgeous; I highly recommend the drive to everyone,
especially if you have a sporty car.

High up in the Big Horns, we met the jerky man. The jerky man was
partially crippled, using a walker to get around and selling buffalo and
elk jerky out of the back of his camper trailer. The jerky man gave us
samples of his wares and we subsequently bought some very tasty jerky.
The jerky man also gave us suggestions as the the most fun route to take
to get to Cody, which is to stay on US-14 all the way. There were nice
switchbacks back down the mountains and some very long straights where
we could drive well above the speed limit for long distances.

From Cody, WY into Yellowstone was a short but pleasant drive. Once we
got into Yellowstone, everything became amazing and gorgeous, even more
so than the Badlands. Yellowstone was chock full of fun, from mud
volcanoes and hot springs to bison walking across the street in front of
me. At the center of Yellowstone is Lake Yellowstone, which is so large
as to seem an inland sea. Whilst Lake Yellowstone is not as large as
some of the great lakes, it is at an elevation of 7,732 feet, which is
to say very high up. Yellowstone, as keen as it is, is another sight
that I recommend to everyone.

In summation, driving through Wyoming is awesome, everyone should give
it a try. Now we're going to hang out with Graham in Montana for a
while.
