[PROTOTYPE]
===========

:slug: prototype
:date: 2009-06-29 22:24:48+00:00
:updated: 2009-06-29 22:24:58+00:00
:tags: video games

At the suggestion of my good friend Rodin, I grabbed a copy of the game
`[PROTOTYPE] <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prototype_(video_game)>`__
(which I am going to refer to as "Prototype" because the brackets and
capitalization are annoying to type) for my Xbox 360. Rodin's suggestion
was a very good one and so I am passing it on to all of you; Prototype
is awesome, you should go get a copy and start playing it.

Discussing the story behind Prototype won't really give you a sense of
why you should be playing it so, instead, let me start off by saying
that it's a game where you can jump kick helicopters. Let me say that
again, you can jump kick helicopters; this includes Apaches, and you can
destroy them by so doing. Other things you can do include consuming
people for their knowledge and powers, shooting spikes through the
ground to destroy entire city blocks, or throwing tanks at mutated
monsters. All of this massive destruction and awesomeness takes place
within the context of being able to run up the sides of buildings so as
to jump and glide from one to the next. Your character is truly
superhuman in a ridiculous and completely amoral manner; you will
consume civilians just to restore a little bit of health.

The controls are tight, if a little complex, the camera is ok, and the
gameplay is as cathartic as video games get. I've sunk, and enjoyed,
enough hours of Prototype to say that it's worth the $60 that I paid for
it. It doesn't matter what you're playing these days, you should put it
down and go get a copy of Prototype; unless you're boring, you'll thank
yourself for doing so.
